- [Instructor] Any modern web development in Spring
these days requires a reference to WebFlux.
WebFlux is the way to do reactive Spring
since Spring Boot 2.0.
With Spring Security, there's full support for WebFlux.
Let's take a quick look.
The basic annotation that you're going to use
is the @EnableWebFluxSecurity annotation.
This gives you control for basic configuration mapping
and the basic config puts everything as secured.
You also have a handle to a SecurityWebFilterChain.
As you might remember, everything in Spring Security
is based on filters and reactive Spring is no different.
This filter chain provides much more fine-grained control,
much the way that we've seen before
in the authentication managers that we use
for forms in basic Auth and LDAP.
You also have a MapReactiveUserDetailsService
that allows you to handle the traditional
UserDetailsService much the same way we have before.
As we get into our example, we're going to go back
to that in-memory UserDetailsService
but you could do the same thing with the database
or LDAP in the reactive world.
Oftentimes in security, as we have seen already
in this course, you want to have a way
to handle the principal.
And in traditional Spring Security,
that was never a problem.
You just put the principal itself into the method signature.
Well, with WebFlux it still isn't a problem
because it's still based on principal.
But instead of injecting straight principal
into your method, you now have to inject a mono
with a principal template into your method
where you want to handle it.
Not much different but since we're not dealing
with raw objects, it's now a mono wrapper
as opposed to just the straight principal.
But all that being said, you still get
all the same core functionality.
It's just wrapped. Now, we've seen the basics.
Let's jump into some code and look at a real example
of enabling web security with a reactive web.